---
title: Health and Safety Matters
permalink: /information/health-and-safety-matters/
description: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<h4><strong>School Safety Policy</strong></h4><p>We are committed to ensuring a healthy, safe and secure environment for our staff and pupils. As such, we aim to:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>establish and maintain a safe environment for our pupils and staff.</p></li><li><p>provide information and instructions to pupils and staff to enable them to be alert and avoid hazards, and be responsible for their own personal safety.</p></li><li><p>avail safety training to staff and pupils with focused and clear expectations laid out.</p></li><li><p>put in place procedures to be adhered to in the event of incidents and for evacuating the school premises in the event of an emergency.</p></li></ul><h4><strong>Visit to School</strong></h4><p><strong>a. Visit to Classroom/School Compound</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Parents wishing to enter the school must register themselves at the Security Counter. Each parent will be issued&nbsp;with a security sticker which must be worn at all times when in the school.</p></li><li><p>Parents are to approach the General Office for assistance and are not to proceed beyond the General Office without clearance from office personnel.</p></li><li><p>Parents who wish to see the teacher are to do so after lessons. Parents are strongly encouraged to make an appointment&nbsp;with the teachers before the actual visit.</p></li><li><p>Parents must also obtain the school leader's permission at the General Office if they wish to take their children out of the school during school hours. If the child is unwell, he/she must be accompanied home safely.</p></li></ul><p><strong>b. Canteen/Recess</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Parents will not be allowed into the school during recess. There will be teachers on duty to help your child.</p></li></ul><p><strong>c. The School Carpark</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Please refer to the Road Safety section from the Student Handbook pages 7 - 8 regarding morning drop-off, parking policy and rainy weather drive-in.</p></li></ul><h4><strong>General Health</strong></h4><p><strong>a. Immunisation &amp; Health Booklet</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Pupils must be immunised against measles, diphtheria, tetanus and poliomyelitis before joining the school.</p></li><li><p>Health Booklets will be collected for P1, P5 and selected students from other levels before the visit by the School Health Team. The Health Booklet will be returned to the pupils after the Health Check.</p></li></ul><p><strong>b. Physical Health</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>As part of our good routine to ensure the well-being of our pupils, we advise that parents check your child’s health before sending him/her to school.</p></li><li><p>Please do not send your child to school if he/she is unwell. Instead, take your child to the doctor and then let him/her stay home to rest and refrain from coming back to school until he/she is fully recovered.</p></li><li><p>We are particularly concerned with infectious illness/symptoms such as Hand-foot-and-mouth disease (HFMD), red eye (conjunctivitis), gastric flu, fever, cough, diarrhoea and vomiting.</p></li></ul><p><strong>c. Dental Health</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Please click <a href="https://www.queenstownpri.moe.edu.sg/information/facilities-and-services/dental/" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a> for the Dental Clinic Operating Schedule</p></li></ul><h4><strong>Safety and Security</strong></h4><p><strong>a. Excursions/Outings</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Pupils must get parental consent before they can participate in any out-of-school activity during or after school hours.</p></li><li><p>Any fee paid for these activities cannot be refunded if the pupil is absent on the day of the event.</p></li><li><p>Pupils should not leave school during school hours for any reason unless accompanied by their teachers.</p></li></ul><p><strong>b. Personal Items</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Pupils are strongly discouraged from bringing to school too much pocket money, expensive personal belongings such as electronic games, iPod, handphones, etc to prevent loss of or damage to items. The school will not be held accountable for the loss of these items.</p></li><li><p>We also discourage parents from delivering their child’s personal items such as pocket money, books, stationery, water bottle and food through the General Office and Guard Post. Pupils should learn to be responsible for their own items. If they should forget, then they must learn to face the consequences. This will train them to be responsible citizens of the future.</p></li></ul><p><strong>c. Label on All Belongings</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Every pupil must have his/her name and class written or pasted on all his/her belongings such as water bottles, files, books so that the rightful owner of the misplaced items can be easily traced.</p></li></ul><p><strong>d. Lockers</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Every pupil is allocated a locker to keep his/her personal belongings as this will help to lighten the school bag and also to ensure better safety of his/her belongings.</p></li><li><p>He/She is required to provide a small padlock to secure the locker and have a duplicate key at home.</p></li></ul><p><strong>e. Heavy School Bag</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Each pupil is given the class time-table. He/She is advised to bring only the necessary books for the day. Books which are not required for the day should not be brought to school in order to reduce the weight of the bag.</p></li></ul><p><strong>f. Emergencies</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Should there be an emergency, pupils will remain with their teachers in the school premises until the pupil’s parent arrives to take charge of him/her.</p></li></ul><p><strong>g. Lightning Risk Alert Warning</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>All outdoor activities must stop immediately when the amber alert blinking light is on. Both staff and pupils are to proceed indoors immediately.</p></li></ul><h4><strong>Updating of Pupil/Parent/Guardian Particulars</strong></h4><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>As a school, we must ensure that the addresses, contact numbers and commuter status of all our pupils are up-to-date so that they can be easily contacted in times of emergency. </p></li><li><p>If there are changes to the particulars of your child or yourself, please email us at qtps@moe.edu.sg.</p></li></ul><p></p>